So yeah, let's get started with SVG.
The very first thing I wanna talk about
SVG is its viewport and coordinate system.
Just because with the viewpoint it's
a little bit different from how we might
think about HTML and divs and paragraphs.
So the way that I like to think about
SVG is as a window into this world.
[LAUGH] Okay so I'm a little bit
embarrassed about this picture I drew, but
I'm also really happy with
that little bird I drew.
So anyways, I kept it.
But I like to think SVG as kind of
a window into this world of shapes.
And they exist beyond
the boundaries of this
window but,
our SVG element is this window.
And to be able to see
kind of into this world,
we need to be able to specify
the width and height of the window.
And this is how we do it,
we say SVG, and we set the width and
we set the height, and
this is where we put in our SVG shapes.
And then within this SVG world,
the x increases going to the right,
and the y increases going down.
So the (0,0) starts at
wherever we've specified
the window to be and then yeah,
it goes across and down.
And that's something to keep
in mind I think this is
pretty common in graphics programming, but
anyone that hasn't really done that,
It's a little
bit of a mental shift to work
with the y increasing down.
So it's just something that
we should always keep in
mind cuz that's potentially
where bugs could show up.
And if you're interested in a really
deep dive of the SVG coordinate system,
I really highly recommend this blog post,
blog series from sara Soueidan.
It's extremely comprehensive,
goes into a lot of really great detail
about how this SVG viewport works.
There's a lot of functionality there,
that we're not going to touch today.
But that's just because in my
experience a lot of times,
in general with data visualization,
I found that using width and
height attributes are more than enough for
the projects I have.
So, I wanted to kind of go through some
of the SVG elements I use very often.
This is definitely not
a comprehensive list,
it's just the ones that I tend to prefer.
And I have this list of,
if you want to see all of
the SVG shapes available to you,
Mozilla has a basic shapes
article that you can check out.
But the ones I like to use often is,
rectangle, circle, path, and text.
And so for each of these, there are some
attributes that we always need to set or
else we're not going to be able to
see it rendering on the screen, and
these are usually the dimension,
attributes.
So for rectangle,
we always have to set our width and
height, to be able to see it rendering for
the circle,
we always have to set the radius,
for the path,
we always have to set this D attribute,
which is a think short for define.
And this is kind of
the string where we tell SVG,
the kind of path that we want to draw.
And then the optional attributes are
usually kind of the positioning attributes
and if we don't provide these.
Actually for all of these I
think if we don't provide these,
it defaults to (0,0), and
that's also a good thing to keep in mind.
But the optional attributes if
we want to move them around or
anything is the x, y positions and for
the text, we also have text-anchor.
And that I like to think of it as
like in CSS we have text align,
and that's doing pretty
much the same thing.
So text-anchor,
instead of you saying text on lines left,
center, or right, you have text-anchor,
start, middle, and end.
[LAUGH] So,
that's a slight syntax difference.